docs/partial_source/contributing/7_containers.rst, before:

Containers
==========

.. _`ivy.Container`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/e47a7b18628aa73ba0c064d3d07352a7ab672bd1/ivy/container/container.py#L25
.. _`dict`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/e47a7b18628aa73ba0c064d3d07352a7ab672bd1/ivy/container/base.py#L56
.. _`__setitem__`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8605c0a50171bb4818d0fb3e426cec874de46baa/ivy/array/__init__.py#L234
.. _`ivy.Container.map`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L4030
.. _`ivy.Container.all_true`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L1490
.. _`ivy.Container.to_iterator`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L3019
.. _`ContainerBase`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L56



The `ivy.Container`_ inherits from `dict`_, and is useful for storing nested data.
For example, the container is equally suitable for storing batches of training data,
or for storing the weights of a network.

The methods of the :code:`ivy.Container` class are more varied than those of the :code:`ivy.Array`.
All methods of the :code:`ivy.Array` are instance methods,
and almost all of them directly wrap a function in the functional API.
There are a few exceptions, which wrap instance methods on the backend :code:`ivy.NativeArray`, such as `__setitem__`_.

For the :code:`ivy.Container`, there are also methods which are specific to the container itself,
for performing nested operations on the leaves of the container for example.
In addition, there are also static methods, which are not present in the :code:`ivy.Array`.
Overall, this results in the following five mutually exclusive groups of methods.
Each of these are explained in the following sub-sections.

#. Container instance methods
#. Container static methods
#. API instance methods
#. API special methods
#. API static methods

Container Instance Methods
--------------------------

Container instance methods are methods which are specific to the container itself.
A few examples include `ivy.Container.map`_ which is used for mapping a function to all leaves of the container,
`ivy.Container.all_true`_ which determines if all container leaves evaluate to boolean `True`,
and `ivy.Container.to_iterator`_ returns an iterator for traversing the leaves of the container.

There are many more examples, check out the abstract `ContainerBase`_ class to see some more!

Container Static Methods
------------------------

ToDo: write (multi_map)

API Instance Methods
--------------------

ToDo: write

API Special Methods
--------------------

ToDo: write

API Static Methods
------------------

ToDo: write

Commit message:

added Container Static Methods sub-section to container section of contributor guide.
Former-commit-id: 4ae4454b91bafab94fd8e943b830335a25b988d5

docs/partial_source/contributing/7_containers.rst, after:

Containers
==========

.. _`ivy.Container`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/e47a7b18628aa73ba0c064d3d07352a7ab672bd1/ivy/container/container.py#L25
.. _`dict`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/e47a7b18628aa73ba0c064d3d07352a7ab672bd1/ivy/container/base.py#L56
.. _`__setitem__`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8605c0a50171bb4818d0fb3e426cec874de46baa/ivy/array/__init__.py#L234
.. _`ivy.Container.map`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L4030
.. _`ivy.Container.all_true`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L1490
.. _`ivy.Container.to_iterator`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L3019
.. _`ContainerBase`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L56
.. _`ivy.Container.multi_map`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L593
.. _`ivy.Container.diff`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L396
.. _`ivy.Container.common_key_chains`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/8d1eef71522be7f98b601e5f97bb2c54142795b3/ivy/container/base.py#L663

The `ivy.Container`_ inherits from `dict`_, and is useful for storing nested data.
For example, the container is equally suitable for storing batches of training data,
or for storing the weights of a network.

The methods of the :code:`ivy.Container` class are more varied than those of the :code:`ivy.Array`.
All methods of the :code:`ivy.Array` are instance methods,
and almost all of them directly wrap a function in the functional API.
There are a few exceptions, which wrap instance methods on the backend :code:`ivy.NativeArray`, such as `__setitem__`_.

For the :code:`ivy.Container`, there are also methods which are specific to the container itself,
for performing nested operations on the leaves of the container for example.
In addition, there are also static methods, which are not present in the :code:`ivy.Array`.
Overall, this results in the following five mutually exclusive groups of methods.
Each of these are explained in the following sub-sections.

#. Container instance methods
#. Container static methods
#. API instance methods
#. API special methods
#. API static methods

Container Instance Methods
--------------------------

Container instance methods are methods which are specific to the container itself.
A few examples include `ivy.Container.map`_ which is used for mapping a function to all leaves of the container,
`ivy.Container.all_true`_ which determines if all container leaves evaluate to boolean `True`,
and `ivy.Container.to_iterator`_ returns an iterator for traversing the leaves of the container.

There are many more examples, check out the abstract `ContainerBase`_ class to see some more!

Container Static Methods
------------------------

Container static methods are also methods which are specific to containers,
but which generally operate across *multiple* containers rather than a single container.
This underpins the decision to not bind these method to a single container instance,
and instead implement them as *static* methods.

A few examples include `ivy.Container.multi_map`_
which is used for mapping a function to all leaves of *multiple* containers with the same nested structure,
`ivy.Container.diff`_ which displays the difference in nested structure between multiple containers,
and `ivy.Container.common_key_chains`_ which returns the nested structure that is common to all containers.

There are many more examples, check out the abstract `ContainerBase`_ class to see some more!

API Instance Methods
--------------------

ToDo: write

API Special Methods
--------------------

ToDo: write

API Static Methods
------------------

ToDo: write
