docs/partial_source/contributing/9_devices.rst, before:

Devices
=======

.. _`backend setting`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/ee0da7d142ba690a317a4fe00a4dd43cf8634642/ivy/framework_handler.py#L205
.. _`_function_w_arrays_dtype_n_dev_handled`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/fdaea62380c9892e679eba37f26c14a7333013fe/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L242
.. _`NON_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/fdaea62380c9892e679eba37f26c14a7333013fe/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L9
.. _`NON_DTYPE_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/fdaea62380c9892e679eba37f26c14a7333013fe/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L103
.. _`NON_DEV_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/fdaea62380c9892e679eba37f26c14a7333013fe/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L104
.. _`ivy.Device`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/__init__.py#L42
.. _`empty class`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/__init__.py#L34
.. _`device class`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L13

The devices currently supported by Ivy are as follows:

* cpu
* gpu:idx
* tpu:idx

In a similar manner to the :code:`ivy.Dtype` and :code:`ivy.NativeDtype` classes (see :ref:`Data Types`),
there is both an `ivy.Device`_ class and an :code:`ivy.NativeDevice` class,
with :code:`ivy.NativeDevice` initially set as an `empty class`_.
The :code:`ivy.Device` class derives from :code:`str`,
and has simple logic in the constructor to verify that the string formatting is correct.
When a backend is set, the :code:`ivy.NativeDtype` is replaced with the backend-specific `device class`_.

Arguments in other Functions
----------------------------

Like with :code:`dtype`, all :code:`device` arguments are also keyword-only.
All creation functions include the :code:`device` argument,
for specifying the device on which to place the created array.
Some other functions outside of the :code:`creation.py` submodule also support the :code:`device` argument,
such as :code:`ivy.random_uniform` which is located in :code:`random.py`,
but this is simply because of dual categorization.
:code:`ivy.random_uniform` is also essentially a creation function,
despite not being being located in :code:`creation.py`.

The :code:`device` argument is generally not included for functions which accept arrays in the input and perform
operations on these arrays. In such cases, the device of the output arrays is the same as the device for
the input arrays. In cases where the input arrays are located on different devices, an error will be thrown.

The :code:`device` argument is handled in `_function_w_arrays_dtype_n_dev_handled`_ for all functions except those
appearing in `NON_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_ or `NON_DEV_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_.
This is similar to how :code:`dtype` is handled,
with the exception that functions are omitted if they're in `NON_DEV_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_ in this case rather than
`NON_DTYPE_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_. As discussed above,
this is applied to all applicable function dynamically during `backend setting`_.

Overall, the device is inferred as follows:

#. if the :code:`device` argument is provided, use this directly
#. otherwise, if an array is present in the arguments (very rare if :code:`device` is present), \
   set :code:`arr` to this array. This will then be used to infer the device by calling :code:`ivy.dev` on the array
#. otherwise, if no arrays are present in the arguments (by far the most common case if :code:`device` is present), \
   then use the global default device, \
   which currently can either be :code:`cpu` or :code:`gpu:idx`, \
   but more device types and multi-node configurations are in the pipeline. \
   The default device is settable via :code:`ivy.set_default_device`.

For the majority of functions which defer to `_function_w_arrays_dtype_n_dev_handled`_ for handling the device,
these steps will have been followed and the :code:`device` argument will be populated with the correct value
before the backend-specific implementation is even enterred into. Therefore, whereas the :code:`device` argument is
listed as optional in the ivy API at :code:`ivy/functional/ivy/category_name.py`,
the argument is listed as required in the backend-specific implementations at
:code:`ivy/functional/backends/backend_name/category_name.py`.

This is exactly the same as with the :code:`dtype` argument, which is explained above.

Let's take a look at the function :code:`ivy.zeros` as an example.

The implementation in :code:`ivy/functional/ivy/creation.py` has the following signature:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: Optional[Union[ivy.Dtype, ivy.NativeDtype]] = None,
        device: Optional[Union[ivy.Device, ivy.NativeDevice]] = None,
    ) -> ivy.Array:

Whereas the backend-specific implementations in :code:`ivy/functional/backends/backend_name/creation.py`
all list :code:`device` as required.

Jax:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: jnp.dtype,
        device: jaxlib.xla_extension.Device,
    ) -> JaxArray:

MXNet:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: type,
        device: mx.context.Context,
    ) -> mx.nd.NDArray:

NumPy:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: np.dtype,
        device: str,
    ) -> np.ndarray:

TensorFlow:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: tf.DType,
        device: str,
    ) -> Tensor:

PyTorch:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: torch.dtype,
        device: torch.device,
    ) -> Tensor:

This makes it clear that these backend-specific functions are only enterred into once the correct :code:`device`
has been determined.

However, the :code:`device` argument for functions listed in `NON_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_ or `NON_DEV_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_
are **not** handled by `_function_w_arrays_dtype_n_dev_handled`_,
and so these defaults must be handled by the backend-specific implementations themselves,
by calling :code:`ivy.default_device` internally.

Commit message:

added device module sub-section to devices section of contributor guide.
Former-commit-id: ca7f0bc652af68b9daeafb20cdfda1f1c116d878

docs/partial_source/contributing/9_devices.rst, after:

Devices
=======

.. _`backend setting`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/ee0da7d142ba690a317a4fe00a4dd43cf8634642/ivy/framework_handler.py#L205
.. _`_function_w_arrays_dtype_n_dev_handled`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/fdaea62380c9892e679eba37f26c14a7333013fe/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L242
.. _`NON_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/fdaea62380c9892e679eba37f26c14a7333013fe/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L9
.. _`NON_DTYPE_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/fdaea62380c9892e679eba37f26c14a7333013fe/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L103
.. _`NON_DEV_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/fdaea62380c9892e679eba37f26c14a7333013fe/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L104
.. _`ivy.Device`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/__init__.py#L42
.. _`empty class`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/__init__.py#L34
.. _`device class`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L13
.. _`device.py`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/functional/ivy/device.py
.. _`ivy.total_mem_on_dev`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/functional/ivy/device.py#L215
.. _`ivy.dev_util`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/functional/ivy/device.py#L326
.. _`ivy.num_cpu_cores`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/functional/ivy/device.py#L371
.. _`ivy.default_device`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/0b89c7fa050db13ef52b0d2a3e1a5fb801a19fa2/ivy/functional/ivy/device.py#L424

The devices currently supported by Ivy are as follows:

* cpu
* gpu:idx
* tpu:idx

In a similar manner to the :code:`ivy.Dtype` and :code:`ivy.NativeDtype` classes (see :ref:`Data Types`),
there is both an `ivy.Device`_ class and an :code:`ivy.NativeDevice` class,
with :code:`ivy.NativeDevice` initially set as an `empty class`_.
The :code:`ivy.Device` class derives from :code:`str`,
and has simple logic in the constructor to verify that the string formatting is correct.
When a backend is set, the :code:`ivy.NativeDtype` is replaced with the backend-specific `device class`_.

Device Module
-------------

The `device.py`_ module provides a variety of functions for working with devices.
A few examples include
:code:`ivy.get_all_arrays_on_dev` which gets all arrays which are currently alive on the specified device,
:code:`ivy.dev` which gets the device for input array,
and :code:`ivy.num_gpus` which determines the number of available GPUs for use with the backend framework.

Many functions are *convenience* functions, which means that they do not directly modify arrays,
as explained in the :ref:`Function Types` section.

For example,
`ivy.total_mem_on_dev`_ which gets the total amount of memory for a given device,
`ivy.dev_util`_ which gets the current utilization (%) for a given device,
`ivy.num_cpu_cores`_ which determines the number of cores available in the CPU,
and `ivy.default_device`_ which returns the correct device to use,
are all convenience functions.

`ivy.default_device`_ is arguably the most important function.
Any function in the functional API that receives a :code:`device` argument will make use of this function,
as explained below.

Arguments in other Functions
----------------------------

Like with :code:`dtype`, all :code:`device` arguments are also keyword-only.
All creation functions include the :code:`device` argument,
for specifying the device on which to place the created array.
Some other functions outside of the :code:`creation.py` submodule also support the :code:`device` argument,
such as :code:`ivy.random_uniform` which is located in :code:`random.py`,
but this is simply because of dual categorization.
:code:`ivy.random_uniform` is also essentially a creation function,
despite not being being located in :code:`creation.py`.

The :code:`device` argument is generally not included for functions which accept arrays in the input and perform
operations on these arrays. In such cases, the device of the output arrays is the same as the device for
the input arrays. In cases where the input arrays are located on different devices, an error will be thrown.

The :code:`device` argument is handled in `_function_w_arrays_dtype_n_dev_handled`_ for all functions except those
appearing in `NON_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_ or `NON_DEV_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_.
This is similar to how :code:`dtype` is handled,
with the exception that functions are omitted if they're in `NON_DEV_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_ in this case rather than
`NON_DTYPE_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_. As discussed above,
this is applied to all applicable function dynamically during `backend setting`_.

Overall, the device is inferred as follows:

#. if the :code:`device` argument is provided, use this directly
#. otherwise, if an array is present in the arguments (very rare if :code:`device` is present), \
   set :code:`arr` to this array. This will then be used to infer the device by calling :code:`ivy.dev` on the array
#. otherwise, if no arrays are present in the arguments (by far the most common case if :code:`device` is present), \
   then use the global default device, \
   which currently can either be :code:`cpu` or :code:`gpu:idx`, \
   but more device types and multi-node configurations are in the pipeline. \
   The default device is settable via :code:`ivy.set_default_device`.

For the majority of functions which defer to `_function_w_arrays_dtype_n_dev_handled`_ for handling the device,
these steps will have been followed and the :code:`device` argument will be populated with the correct value
before the backend-specific implementation is even enterred into. Therefore, whereas the :code:`device` argument is
listed as optional in the ivy API at :code:`ivy/functional/ivy/category_name.py`,
the argument is listed as required in the backend-specific implementations at
:code:`ivy/functional/backends/backend_name/category_name.py`.

This is exactly the same as with the :code:`dtype` argument, which is explained above.

Let's take a look at the function :code:`ivy.zeros` as an example.

The implementation in :code:`ivy/functional/ivy/creation.py` has the following signature:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: Optional[Union[ivy.Dtype, ivy.NativeDtype]] = None,
        device: Optional[Union[ivy.Device, ivy.NativeDevice]] = None,
    ) -> ivy.Array:

Whereas the backend-specific implementations in :code:`ivy/functional/backends/backend_name/creation.py`
all list :code:`device` as required.

Jax:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: jnp.dtype,
        device: jaxlib.xla_extension.Device,
    ) -> JaxArray:

MXNet:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: type,
        device: mx.context.Context,
    ) -> mx.nd.NDArray:

NumPy:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: np.dtype,
        device: str,
    ) -> np.ndarray:

TensorFlow:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: tf.DType,
        device: str,
    ) -> Tensor:

PyTorch:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int], List[int]],
        *,
        dtype: torch.dtype,
        device: torch.device,
    ) -> Tensor:

This makes it clear that these backend-specific functions are only enterred into once the correct :code:`device`
has been determined.

However, the :code:`device` argument for functions listed in `NON_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_ or `NON_DEV_WRAPPED_FUNCTIONS`_
are **not** handled by `_function_w_arrays_dtype_n_dev_handled`_,
and so these defaults must be handled by the backend-specific implementations themselves,
by calling :code:`ivy.default_device` internally.
