docs/partial_source/deep_dive/3_function_wrapping.rst, before:

Function Wrapping
=================

.. _`wrapped`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/1eb841cdf595e2bb269fce084bd50fb79ce01a69/ivy/backend_handler.py#L204
.. _`_wrap_function`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L340
.. _`abs`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/1eb841cdf595e2bb269fce084bd50fb79ce01a69/ivy/functional/ivy/elementwise.py#L2142
.. _`creation submodule`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/functional/ivy/creation.py
.. _`zeros`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/functional/ivy/creation.py#L158
.. _`asarray`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/functional/ivy/creation.py#L110
.. _`inputs_to_native_arrays`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L62
.. _`inputs_to_ivy_arrays`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L104
.. _`outputs_to_ivy_arrays`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L134
.. _`to_native_arrays_and_back`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L164
.. _`infer_dtype`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L176
.. _`infer_device`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L213
.. _`handle_out_argument`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L250
.. _`handle_nestable`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L297
.. _`function wrapping discussion`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/discussions/1314
.. _`repo`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy
.. _`discord`: https://discord.gg/ZVQdvbzNQJ
.. _`function wrapping channel`: https://discord.com/channels/799879767196958751/982737993028755496

When a backend framework is set by calling :code:`ivy.set_backend(backend_name)`,
then all Ivy functions are `wrapped`_. This is achieved by calling `_wrap_function`_, which will apply the appropriate
wrapping to the given function, based on what decorators it has. For example, `abs`_ has the decorators
:code:`@to_native_arrays_and_back` and :code:`@handle_out_argument`, and so the backend implementations will also be
wrapped with the `to_native_arrays_and_back`_ and `handle_out_argument`_ wrappers.

The new function returned by :code:`_wrap_function`
is a replacement of the original function with extra code added to support requirements common to many functions
in the API. This is the main purpose of the wrapping, to avoid code duplication which would exist if we added
identical logic in every single function independently.

Depending on the function being wrapped, the new function
might handle :ref:`Arrays`, :ref:`Inplace Updates`, :ref:`Data Types` and/or :ref:`Devices`.

Following are some of the wrapping functions currently used:

#.  `inputs_to_native_arrays`_ : This wrapping function converts all :code:`ivy.Array` instances in the arguments
    to their :code:`ivy.NativeArray` counterparts, based on the :ref:`Backend Setting` before calling the function.
#.  `inputs_to_ivy_arrays`_ : This wrapping function converts all :code:`ivy.NativeArray` instances in the arguments
    to their :code:`ivy.Array` counterparts, based on the :ref:`Backend Setting` before calling the function.
#.  `outputs_to_ivy_arrays`_ : This wrapping function converts all :code:`ivy.NativeArray` instances in the outputs
    to their :code:`ivy.Array` counterparts, based on the :ref:`Backend Setting` before calling the function.
#.  `to_native_arrays_and_back`_ : This wrapping function converts all :code:`ivy.Array` instances in the arguments
    to their :code:`ivy.NativeArray` counterparts, calls the function with those arguments and then converts the 
    :code:`ivy.NativeArray` instances in the output back to :code:`ivy.Array`. This wrapping function is heavily used because
    it enables achieving the objective of ensuring that every ivy function could accept an :code:`ivy.Array` and return
    an :code:`ivy.Array`, making it independent of the :ref:`Backend Setting`.
#.  `infer_dtype`_ : This wrapping function infers the `dtype` argument to be passed to a function based on the 
    array arguments passed to it. If :code:`dtype` is explicitly passed to the function, then it is used directly. This
    wrapping function could be found in functions from the `creation submodule`_ such as `zeros`_ where we then
    allow the user to not enter the :code:`dtype` argument to such functions.
#.  `infer_device`_ : Similar to the `infer_dtype`_ wrapping function, the `infer_device`_ function wrapping 
    infers the :code:`device` argument to be passed to a function based on the first array argument passed to it. This 
    wrapping function is also used a lot in functions from the `creation submodule`_ such as `asarray`_, where
    we want to create the `ivy.Array` on the same device as the input array.
#.  `handle_out_argument`_ : This wrapping function is used in nearly all ivy functions. It enables appropriate
    handling of the :code:`out` argument of functions. In cases where the backend framework natively supports the :code:`out` 
    argument for a function, we prefer to use it as it's a more efficient implementation of the :code:`out` argument for 
    that particular backend framework. But in cases when it isn't supported, we support it anyway with 
    :ref:`Inplace Updates`.
#.  `handle_nestable`_ : This wrapping function enables the use of :code:`ivy.Container` arguments in functions and
    directly calling them through the :code:`ivy` namespace, just like calling a function with :code:`ivy.Array` arguments 
    instead. Whenever there's a :code:`ivy.Container` argument, this wrapping function defers to the corresponding
    :ref:`Containers` static method to facilitate the same. As a result, the function can be called by passing
    an :code:`ivy.Container` to any or all of its arguments.

When calling `_wrap_function`_ during :ref:`Backend Setting`, firstly the attributes of the functions are checked 
to get all the wrapping functions for a particular functions. Then all the wrapping functions applicable to a
function are used to wrap the function.

Each of these topics and each associated piece of logic added by the various wrapper functions are covered in more
detail in the next sections. For now, suffice it to say that they do quite a lot.

**Round Up**

This should have hopefully given you a good feel for how function wrapping is applied to functions in Ivy.

If you're ever unsure of how best to proceed,
please feel free to engage with the `function wrapping discussion`_,
or reach out on `discord`_ in the `function wrapping channel`_!


**Video**

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="420" height="315"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-RGXxrP849k" class="video">
    </iframe>

Commit message:

added documentation for integer array to float conversion (#2960)
Former-commit-id: ab4ad446413a4fc0ff20373339849d6421411379

docs/partial_source/deep_dive/3_function_wrapping.rst, after:

Function Wrapping
=================

.. _`wrapped`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/1eb841cdf595e2bb269fce084bd50fb79ce01a69/ivy/backend_handler.py#L204
.. _`_wrap_function`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L340
.. _`abs`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/1eb841cdf595e2bb269fce084bd50fb79ce01a69/ivy/functional/ivy/elementwise.py#L2142
.. _`creation submodule`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/functional/ivy/creation.py
.. _`zeros`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/functional/ivy/creation.py#L158
.. _`asarray`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/functional/ivy/creation.py#L110
.. _`inputs_to_native_arrays`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L62
.. _`inputs_to_ivy_arrays`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L104
.. _`outputs_to_ivy_arrays`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L134
.. _`to_native_arrays_and_back`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L164
.. _`infer_dtype`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L176
.. _`infer_device`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L213
.. _`handle_out_argument`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L250
.. _`handle_nestable`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/644412e3e691d2a04c7d3cd36fb492aa9f5d6b2d/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L297
.. _`function wrapping discussion`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/discussions/1314
.. _`repo`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy
.. _`discord`: https://discord.gg/ZVQdvbzNQJ
.. _`function wrapping channel`: https://discord.com/channels/799879767196958751/982737993028755496
.. _`interger_array_to_float`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/5da858be094a8ddb90ffe8886393c1043f4d8ae7/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L244

When a backend framework is set by calling :code:`ivy.set_backend(backend_name)`,
then all Ivy functions are `wrapped`_. This is achieved by calling `_wrap_function`_, which will apply the appropriate
wrapping to the given function, based on what decorators it has. For example, `abs`_ has the decorators
:code:`@to_native_arrays_and_back` and :code:`@handle_out_argument`, and so the backend implementations will also be
wrapped with the `to_native_arrays_and_back`_ and `handle_out_argument`_ wrappers.

The new function returned by :code:`_wrap_function`
is a replacement of the original function with extra code added to support requirements common to many functions
in the API. This is the main purpose of the wrapping, to avoid code duplication which would exist if we added
identical logic in every single function independently.

Depending on the function being wrapped, the new function
might handle :ref:`Arrays`, :ref:`Inplace Updates`, :ref:`Data Types` and/or :ref:`Devices`.

Following are some of the wrapping functions currently used:

#.  `inputs_to_native_arrays`_ : This wrapping function converts all :code:`ivy.Array` instances in the arguments
    to their :code:`ivy.NativeArray` counterparts, based on the :ref:`Backend Setting` before calling the function.
#.  `inputs_to_ivy_arrays`_ : This wrapping function converts all :code:`ivy.NativeArray` instances in the arguments
    to their :code:`ivy.Array` counterparts, based on the :ref:`Backend Setting` before calling the function.
#.  `outputs_to_ivy_arrays`_ : This wrapping function converts all :code:`ivy.NativeArray` instances in the outputs
    to their :code:`ivy.Array` counterparts, based on the :ref:`Backend Setting` before calling the function.
#.  `to_native_arrays_and_back`_ : This wrapping function converts all :code:`ivy.Array` instances in the arguments
    to their :code:`ivy.NativeArray` counterparts, calls the function with those arguments and then converts the 
    :code:`ivy.NativeArray` instances in the output back to :code:`ivy.Array`. This wrapping function is heavily used because
    it enables achieving the objective of ensuring that every ivy function could accept an :code:`ivy.Array` and return
    an :code:`ivy.Array`, making it independent of the :ref:`Backend Setting`.
#.  `infer_dtype`_ : This wrapping function infers the `dtype` argument to be passed to a function based on the 
    array arguments passed to it. If :code:`dtype` is explicitly passed to the function, then it is used directly. This
    wrapping function could be found in functions from the `creation submodule`_ such as `zeros`_ where we then
    allow the user to not enter the :code:`dtype` argument to such functions.
#.  `infer_device`_ : Similar to the `infer_dtype`_ wrapping function, the `infer_device`_ function wrapping 
    infers the :code:`device` argument to be passed to a function based on the first array argument passed to it. This 
    wrapping function is also used a lot in functions from the `creation submodule`_ such as `asarray`_, where
    we want to create the `ivy.Array` on the same device as the input array.
#.  `handle_out_argument`_ : This wrapping function is used in nearly all ivy functions. It enables appropriate
    handling of the :code:`out` argument of functions. In cases where the backend framework natively supports the :code:`out` 
    argument for a function, we prefer to use it as it's a more efficient implementation of the :code:`out` argument for 
    that particular backend framework. But in cases when it isn't supported, we support it anyway with 
    :ref:`Inplace Updates`.
#.  `handle_nestable`_ : This wrapping function enables the use of :code:`ivy.Container` arguments in functions and
    directly calling them through the :code:`ivy` namespace, just like calling a function with :code:`ivy.Array` arguments 
    instead. Whenever there's a :code:`ivy.Container` argument, this wrapping function defers to the corresponding
    :ref:`Containers` static method to facilitate the same. As a result, the function can be called by passing
    an :code:`ivy.Container` to any or all of its arguments.
#.  `integer_array_to_float`_: This wrapping function enables conversion of integer array inputs in the positional and keyword
    arguments to a function to the default float dtype. This is currently used to support integer array arguments to functions
    for which one or more backend frameworks only non-integer numeric dtypes.

When calling `_wrap_function`_ during :ref:`Backend Setting`, firstly the attributes of the functions are checked 
to get all the wrapping functions for a particular functions. Then all the wrapping functions applicable to a
function are used to wrap the function.

Each of these topics and each associated piece of logic added by the various wrapper functions are covered in more
detail in the next sections. For now, suffice it to say that they do quite a lot.

**Round Up**

This should have hopefully given you a good feel for how function wrapping is applied to functions in Ivy.

If you're ever unsure of how best to proceed,
please feel free to engage with the `function wrapping discussion`_,
or reach out on `discord`_ in the `function wrapping channel`_!


**Video**

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="420" height="315"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-RGXxrP849k" class="video">
    </iframe>
