docs/partial_source/deep_dive/6_data_types.rst, before:

Data Types
==========

.. _`backend setting`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/1eb841cdf595e2bb269fce084bd50fb79ce01a69/ivy/backend_handler.py#L204
.. _`infer_dtype`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/1eb841cdf595e2bb269fce084bd50fb79ce01a69/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L249
.. _`import time`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L225
.. _`ivy.Dtype`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L51
.. _`empty class`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L38
.. _`also specified`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L241
.. _`tuples`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L256
.. _`valid tuples`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L303
.. _`invalid tuples`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L309
.. _`data type class`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L14
.. _`true native data types`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L16
.. _`valid data types`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L29
.. _`invalid data types`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L56
.. _`original definition`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/__init__.py#L225
.. _`new definition`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L16
.. _`handled`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/backend_handler.py#L194
.. _`data_type.py`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/30b7ca4f8a50a52f51884738fe7323883ce891bd/ivy/functional/ivy/data_type.py
.. _`ivy.can_cast`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/f18df2e19d6a5a56463fa1a15760c555a30cb2b2/ivy/functional/ivy/data_type.py#L22
.. _`ivy.default_dtype`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/f18df2e19d6a5a56463fa1a15760c555a30cb2b2/ivy/functional/ivy/data_type.py#L484
.. _`ivy.set_default_dtype`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/30b7ca4f8a50a52f51884738fe7323883ce891bd/ivy/functional/ivy/data_type.py#L536
.. _`data types discussion`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/discussions/1307
.. _`repo`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy
.. _`discord`: https://discord.gg/ZVQdvbzNQJ
.. _`data types channel`: https://discord.com/channels/799879767196958751/982738078445760532


The data types supported by Ivy are as follows:

* int8
* int16
* int32
* int64
* uint8
* uint16
* uint32
* uint64
* bfloat16
* float16
* float32
* float64
* bool

These are all defined at `import time`_, with each of these set as an `ivy.Dtype`_ instance.
The :code:`ivy.Dtype` class derives from :code:`str`,
and has simple logic in the constructor to verify that the string formatting is correct.
All data types can be queried as attributes of the :code:`ivy` namespace, such as :code:`ivy.float32` etc.

In addition, *native* data types are `also specified`_ at import time.
Likewise, these are all *initially* set as `ivy.Dtype`_ instances.

There is also an :code:`ivy.NativeDtype` class defined, but this is initially set as an `empty class`_.

The following `tuples`_ are also defined: :code:`all_dtypes`, :code:`all_numeric_dtypes`, :code:`all_int_dtypes`,
:code:`all_float_dtypes`. These each contain all possible data types which fall into the corresponding category.
Each of these tuples is also replicated in a new set of four `valid tuples`_
and a set of four `invalid tuples`_.
When no backend is set, all data types are assumed to be valid, and so the :code:`invalid` tuples are all empty,
and the :code:`valid` tuples are set as equal to the original four *"all"* tuples.

However, when a backend is set, then some of these are updated.
Firstly, the :code:`ivy.NativeDtype` is replaced with the backend-specific `data type class`_.
Secondly, each of the native data types are replaced with the `true native data types`_.
Thirdly, the `valid data types`_ are updated.
Finally, the `invalid data types`_ are updated.

This leaves each of the data types unmodified,
for example :code:`ivy.float32` will still reference the  `original definition`_ in :code:`ivy/ivy/__init__.py`,
whereas :code:`ivy.native_float32` will now reference the `new definition`_ in
:code:`/ivy/functional/backends/backend/__init__.py`.

The tuples :code:`all_dtypes`, :code:`all_numeric_dtypes`, :code:`all_int_dtypes` and :code:`all_float_dtypes`
are also left unmodified.
Importantly, we must ensure that unsupported data types are removed from the :code:`ivy` namespace.
For example, torch supports :code:`uint8`, but does not support :code:`uint16`, :code:`uint32` or :code:`uint64`.
Therefore, after setting a torch backend via :code:`ivy.set_backend('torch')`,
we should no longer be able to access :code:`ivy.uint16`.
This is `handled`_ in :code:`ivy.set_backend`.

Data Type Module
----------------

The `data_type.py`_ module provides a variety of functions for working with data types.
A few examples include
:code:`ivy.astype` which copies an array to a specified data type,
:code:`ivy.broadcast_to` which broadcasts an array to a specified shape,
and :code:`ivy.result_type` which returns the dtype that results from applying the type promotion rules to the arguments.

Many functions in the :code:`data_type.py` module are *convenience* functions,
which means that they do not directly modify arrays, as explained in the :ref:`Function Types` section.

For example, the following are all convenience functions:
`ivy.can_cast`_, which determines if one data type can be cast to another data type according to type-promotion rules,
`ivy.dtype`_, which gets the data type for the input array,
`ivy.set_default_dtype`_, which sets the global default data dtype,
and `ivy.default_dtype`_, which returns the correct data type to use.

`ivy.default_dtype`_ is arguably the most important function.
Any function in the functional API that receives a :code:`dtype` argument will make use of this function,
as explained below.

Arguments in other Functions
----------------------------

All :code:`dtype` arguments are keyword-only.
All creation functions include the :code:`dtype` argument, for specifying the data type of the created array.
Some other non-creation functions also support the :code:`dtype` argument,
such as :code:`ivy.prod` and :code:`ivy.sum`, but most functions do not include it.
The non-creation functions which do support it are generally functions that involve a compounding reduction across the
array, which could result in overflows, and so an explicit :code:`dtype` argument is useful to handling such cases.

The :code:`dtype` argument is handled in the `infer_dtype`_ wrapper, for all functions which have the decorator
:code:`@infer_dtype`.
This function calls `ivy.default_dtype`_ in order to determine the correct data type.
As discussed in the :ref:`Function Wrapping` section,
this is applied to all applicable functions dynamically during `backend setting`_.

Overall, `ivy.default_dtype`_ infers the data type as follows:

#. if the :code:`dtype` argument is provided, use this directly
#. otherwise, if an array is present in the arguments, set :code:`arr` to this array. \
   This will then be used to infer the data type by calling :code:`ivy.dtype` on the array
#. otherwise, if a *relevant* scalar is present in the arguments, set :code:`arr` to this scalar \
   and derive the data type from this by calling either :code:`ivy.default_int_dtype` or \
   :code:`ivy.default_float_dtype` depending on whether the scalar is an :code:`int` or :code:`float`. \
   This will either return the globally set default :code:`int` or globally set default :code:`float` \
   (settable via :code:`ivy.set_default_int_dtype` and :code:`ivy.set_default_float_dtype` respectively). \
   An example of a *relevant* scalar is :code:`start` in the function :code:`ivy.arange`, \
   which is used to set the starting value of the returned array. \
   Examples of *irrelevant* scalars which should **not** be used for determining the data type are :code:`axis`, \
   :code:`axes`, :code:`dims` etc. which must be integers, and control other configurations of the function \
   being called, with no bearing at all on the data types used by that function.
#. otherwise, if no arrays or relevant scalars are present in the arguments, \
   then use the global default data type, which can either be an :code:`int` or :code:`float` data type. \
   This is settable via :code:`ivy.set_default_dtype`.

For the majority of functions which defer to `infer_dtype`_ for handling the data type,
these steps will have been followed and the :code:`dtype` argument will be populated with the correct value
before the backend-specific implementation is even entered into. Therefore, whereas the :code:`dtype` argument is
listed as optional in the ivy API at :code:`ivy/functional/ivy/category_name.py`,
the argument is listed as required in the backend-specific implementations at
:code:`ivy/functional/backends/backend_name/category_name.py`.

Let's take a look at the function :code:`ivy.zeros` as an example.

The implementation in :code:`ivy/functional/ivy/creation.py` has the following signature:

.. code-block:: python

    @outputs_to_ivy_arrays
    @handle_out_argument
    @infer_dtype
    @infer_device
    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: Optional[Union[ivy.Dtype, ivy.NativeDtype]] = None,
        device: Optional[Union[ivy.Device, ivy.NativeDevice]] = None,
    ) -> ivy.Array:

Whereas the backend-specific implementations in :code:`ivy/functional/backends/backend_name/statistical.py`
all list :code:`dtype` as required.

Jax:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: jnp.dtype,
        device: jaxlib.xla_extension.Device,
    ) -> JaxArray:

MXNet:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: type,
        device: mx.context.Context,
    ) -> mx.nd.NDArray:

NumPy:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: np.dtype,
        device: str,
    ) -> np.ndarray:

TensorFlow:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: tf.DType,
        device: str,
    ) -> Union[tf.Tensor, tf.Variable]:

PyTorch:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: torch.dtype,
        device: torch.device,
    ) -> torch.Tensor:

This makes it clear that these backend-specific functions are only entered into once the correct :code:`dtype`
has been determined.

However, the :code:`dtype` argument for functions which don't have the :code:`@infer_dtype` decorator
are **not** handled by `infer_dtype`_,
and so these defaults must be handled by the backend-specific implementations themselves.

One reason for not adding :code:`@infer_dtype` to a function is because it includes *relevant* scalar arguments
for inferring the data type from. `infer_dtype`_ is not able to correctly handle such cases,
and so the dtype handling is delegated to the backend-specific implementations.

For example :code:`ivy.full` doesn't have the :code:`@infer_dtype` decorator even though it has a :code:`dtype` argument
because of the *relevant* :code:`fill_value` which cannot be correctly handled by `infer_dtype`_.

The PyTorch-specific implementation is as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    def full(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int]],
        fill_value: Union[int, float],
        *,
        dtype: Optional[Union[ivy.Dtype, torch.dtype]] = None,
        device: torch.device,
    ) -> Tensor:
        return torch.full(
            shape_to_tuple(shape),
            fill_value,
            dtype=ivy.default_dtype(dtype=dtype, item=fill_value, as_native=True),
            device=device,
        )

The implementations for all other backends follow a similar pattern to this PyTorch implementation,
where the :code:`dtype` argument is optional and :code:`ivy.default_dtype` is called inside the
backend-specific implementation.

Unsupported data types
----------------------

Some backend functions have an attribute named :code:`unsupported_dtypes` which flags data types
which this particular backend version of the function doesn't support but other backends might
do. It should be noted that the :code:`unsupported_dtypes` is different from :code:`ivy.invalid_dtypes`
which consists of all the :code:`dtypes` that every function of that particular backend doesn't support
and so if a certain :code:`dtype` is already present in the :code:`ivy.invalid_dtypes` then we should
not repeat flag it by adding it into the :code:`unsupported_dtypes`.


**Round Up**

This should have hopefully given you a good feel for data types, and how these are handled in Ivy.

If you're ever unsure of how best to proceed,
please feel free to engage with the `data types discussion`_,
or reach out on `discord`_ in the `data types channel`_!


**Video**

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="420" height="315"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2qOBzQdLXn4" class="video">
    </iframe>

Commit message:

added documentation for integer array to float conversion

docs/partial_source/deep_dive/6_data_types.rst, after:

Data Types
==========

.. _`backend setting`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/1eb841cdf595e2bb269fce084bd50fb79ce01a69/ivy/backend_handler.py#L204
.. _`infer_dtype`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/1eb841cdf595e2bb269fce084bd50fb79ce01a69/ivy/func_wrapper.py#L249
.. _`import time`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L225
.. _`ivy.Dtype`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L51
.. _`empty class`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L38
.. _`also specified`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L241
.. _`tuples`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L256
.. _`valid tuples`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L303
.. _`invalid tuples`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/9c2eb725387152d721040d8638c8f898541a9da4/ivy/__init__.py#L309
.. _`data type class`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L14
.. _`true native data types`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L16
.. _`valid data types`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L29
.. _`invalid data types`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L56
.. _`original definition`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/__init__.py#L225
.. _`new definition`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/functional/backends/torch/__init__.py#L16
.. _`handled`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/a594075390532d2796a6b649785b93532aee5c9a/ivy/backend_handler.py#L194
.. _`data_type.py`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/30b7ca4f8a50a52f51884738fe7323883ce891bd/ivy/functional/ivy/data_type.py
.. _`ivy.can_cast`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/f18df2e19d6a5a56463fa1a15760c555a30cb2b2/ivy/functional/ivy/data_type.py#L22
.. _`ivy.default_dtype`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/f18df2e19d6a5a56463fa1a15760c555a30cb2b2/ivy/functional/ivy/data_type.py#L484
.. _`ivy.set_default_dtype`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/blob/30b7ca4f8a50a52f51884738fe7323883ce891bd/ivy/functional/ivy/data_type.py#L536
.. _`data types discussion`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy/discussions/1307
.. _`repo`: https://github.com/unifyai/ivy
.. _`discord`: https://discord.gg/ZVQdvbzNQJ
.. _`data types channel`: https://discord.com/channels/799879767196958751/982738078445760532


The data types supported by Ivy are as follows:

* int8
* int16
* int32
* int64
* uint8
* uint16
* uint32
* uint64
* bfloat16
* float16
* float32
* float64
* bool

These are all defined at `import time`_, with each of these set as an `ivy.Dtype`_ instance.
The :code:`ivy.Dtype` class derives from :code:`str`,
and has simple logic in the constructor to verify that the string formatting is correct.
All data types can be queried as attributes of the :code:`ivy` namespace, such as :code:`ivy.float32` etc.

In addition, *native* data types are `also specified`_ at import time.
Likewise, these are all *initially* set as `ivy.Dtype`_ instances.

There is also an :code:`ivy.NativeDtype` class defined, but this is initially set as an `empty class`_.

The following `tuples`_ are also defined: :code:`all_dtypes`, :code:`all_numeric_dtypes`, :code:`all_int_dtypes`,
:code:`all_float_dtypes`. These each contain all possible data types which fall into the corresponding category.
Each of these tuples is also replicated in a new set of four `valid tuples`_
and a set of four `invalid tuples`_.
When no backend is set, all data types are assumed to be valid, and so the :code:`invalid` tuples are all empty,
and the :code:`valid` tuples are set as equal to the original four *"all"* tuples.

However, when a backend is set, then some of these are updated.
Firstly, the :code:`ivy.NativeDtype` is replaced with the backend-specific `data type class`_.
Secondly, each of the native data types are replaced with the `true native data types`_.
Thirdly, the `valid data types`_ are updated.
Finally, the `invalid data types`_ are updated.

This leaves each of the data types unmodified,
for example :code:`ivy.float32` will still reference the  `original definition`_ in :code:`ivy/ivy/__init__.py`,
whereas :code:`ivy.native_float32` will now reference the `new definition`_ in
:code:`/ivy/functional/backends/backend/__init__.py`.

The tuples :code:`all_dtypes`, :code:`all_numeric_dtypes`, :code:`all_int_dtypes` and :code:`all_float_dtypes`
are also left unmodified.
Importantly, we must ensure that unsupported data types are removed from the :code:`ivy` namespace.
For example, torch supports :code:`uint8`, but does not support :code:`uint16`, :code:`uint32` or :code:`uint64`.
Therefore, after setting a torch backend via :code:`ivy.set_backend('torch')`,
we should no longer be able to access :code:`ivy.uint16`.
This is `handled`_ in :code:`ivy.set_backend`.

Data Type Module
----------------

The `data_type.py`_ module provides a variety of functions for working with data types.
A few examples include
:code:`ivy.astype` which copies an array to a specified data type,
:code:`ivy.broadcast_to` which broadcasts an array to a specified shape,
and :code:`ivy.result_type` which returns the dtype that results from applying the type promotion rules to the arguments.

Many functions in the :code:`data_type.py` module are *convenience* functions,
which means that they do not directly modify arrays, as explained in the :ref:`Function Types` section.

For example, the following are all convenience functions:
`ivy.can_cast`_, which determines if one data type can be cast to another data type according to type-promotion rules,
`ivy.dtype`_, which gets the data type for the input array,
`ivy.set_default_dtype`_, which sets the global default data dtype,
and `ivy.default_dtype`_, which returns the correct data type to use.

`ivy.default_dtype`_ is arguably the most important function.
Any function in the functional API that receives a :code:`dtype` argument will make use of this function,
as explained below.

Arguments in other Functions
----------------------------

All :code:`dtype` arguments are keyword-only.
All creation functions include the :code:`dtype` argument, for specifying the data type of the created array.
Some other non-creation functions also support the :code:`dtype` argument,
such as :code:`ivy.prod` and :code:`ivy.sum`, but most functions do not include it.
The non-creation functions which do support it are generally functions that involve a compounding reduction across the
array, which could result in overflows, and so an explicit :code:`dtype` argument is useful to handling such cases.

The :code:`dtype` argument is handled in the `infer_dtype`_ wrapper, for all functions which have the decorator
:code:`@infer_dtype`.
This function calls `ivy.default_dtype`_ in order to determine the correct data type.
As discussed in the :ref:`Function Wrapping` section,
this is applied to all applicable functions dynamically during `backend setting`_.

Overall, `ivy.default_dtype`_ infers the data type as follows:

#. if the :code:`dtype` argument is provided, use this directly
#. otherwise, if an array is present in the arguments, set :code:`arr` to this array. \
   This will then be used to infer the data type by calling :code:`ivy.dtype` on the array
#. otherwise, if a *relevant* scalar is present in the arguments, set :code:`arr` to this scalar \
   and derive the data type from this by calling either :code:`ivy.default_int_dtype` or \
   :code:`ivy.default_float_dtype` depending on whether the scalar is an :code:`int` or :code:`float`. \
   This will either return the globally set default :code:`int` or globally set default :code:`float` \
   (settable via :code:`ivy.set_default_int_dtype` and :code:`ivy.set_default_float_dtype` respectively). \
   An example of a *relevant* scalar is :code:`start` in the function :code:`ivy.arange`, \
   which is used to set the starting value of the returned array. \
   Examples of *irrelevant* scalars which should **not** be used for determining the data type are :code:`axis`, \
   :code:`axes`, :code:`dims` etc. which must be integers, and control other configurations of the function \
   being called, with no bearing at all on the data types used by that function.
#. otherwise, if no arrays or relevant scalars are present in the arguments, \
   then use the global default data type, which can either be an :code:`int` or :code:`float` data type. \
   This is settable via :code:`ivy.set_default_dtype`.

For the majority of functions which defer to `infer_dtype`_ for handling the data type,
these steps will have been followed and the :code:`dtype` argument will be populated with the correct value
before the backend-specific implementation is even entered into. Therefore, whereas the :code:`dtype` argument is
listed as optional in the ivy API at :code:`ivy/functional/ivy/category_name.py`,
the argument is listed as required in the backend-specific implementations at
:code:`ivy/functional/backends/backend_name/category_name.py`.

Let's take a look at the function :code:`ivy.zeros` as an example.

The implementation in :code:`ivy/functional/ivy/creation.py` has the following signature:

.. code-block:: python

    @outputs_to_ivy_arrays
    @handle_out_argument
    @infer_dtype
    @infer_device
    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: Optional[Union[ivy.Dtype, ivy.NativeDtype]] = None,
        device: Optional[Union[ivy.Device, ivy.NativeDevice]] = None,
    ) -> ivy.Array:

Whereas the backend-specific implementations in :code:`ivy/functional/backends/backend_name/statistical.py`
all list :code:`dtype` as required.

Jax:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: jnp.dtype,
        device: jaxlib.xla_extension.Device,
    ) -> JaxArray:

MXNet:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: type,
        device: mx.context.Context,
    ) -> mx.nd.NDArray:

NumPy:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: np.dtype,
        device: str,
    ) -> np.ndarray:

TensorFlow:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: tf.DType,
        device: str,
    ) -> Union[tf.Tensor, tf.Variable]:

PyTorch:

.. code-block:: python

    def zeros(
        shape: Union[int, Sequence[int]],
        *,
        dtype: torch.dtype,
        device: torch.device,
    ) -> torch.Tensor:

This makes it clear that these backend-specific functions are only entered into once the correct :code:`dtype`
has been determined.

However, the :code:`dtype` argument for functions which don't have the :code:`@infer_dtype` decorator
are **not** handled by `infer_dtype`_,
and so these defaults must be handled by the backend-specific implementations themselves.

One reason for not adding :code:`@infer_dtype` to a function is because it includes *relevant* scalar arguments
for inferring the data type from. `infer_dtype`_ is not able to correctly handle such cases,
and so the dtype handling is delegated to the backend-specific implementations.

For example :code:`ivy.full` doesn't have the :code:`@infer_dtype` decorator even though it has a :code:`dtype` argument
because of the *relevant* :code:`fill_value` which cannot be correctly handled by `infer_dtype`_.

The PyTorch-specific implementation is as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    def full(
        shape: Union[int, Tuple[int]],
        fill_value: Union[int, float],
        *,
        dtype: Optional[Union[ivy.Dtype, torch.dtype]] = None,
        device: torch.device,
    ) -> Tensor:
        return torch.full(
            shape_to_tuple(shape),
            fill_value,
            dtype=ivy.default_dtype(dtype=dtype, item=fill_value, as_native=True),
            device=device,
        )

The implementations for all other backends follow a similar pattern to this PyTorch implementation,
where the :code:`dtype` argument is optional and :code:`ivy.default_dtype` is called inside the
backend-specific implementation.

Unsupported data types
----------------------

Some backend functions have an attribute named :code:`unsupported_dtypes` which flags data types
which this particular backend version of the function doesn't support but other backends might
do. It should be noted that the :code:`unsupported_dtypes` is different from :code:`ivy.invalid_dtypes`
which consists of all the :code:`dtypes` that every function of that particular backend doesn't support
and so if a certain :code:`dtype` is already present in the :code:`ivy.invalid_dtypes` then we should
not repeat flag it by adding it into the :code:`unsupported_dtypes`.

Support for Integer Arrays
--------------------------

Some backends like :code:`tensorflow` donot support integer array inputs for certain functions. For example
:code:`ivy.cos` wouldn't work for an input like :code:`ivy.array([1,2,3])` when the backend is set to :code:`tensorflow`
the reason being that :code:`tensorflow` only supports non-integer values for this function. However, backends like
:code:`torch` and :code:`jax` support integer arrays as inputs. So to provide this same functionality in
:code:`tensorflow` we simply promote any integer array passed to such functions to the default float dtype.
This behavior in Ivy makes it much easier to support such frameworks in our frontends, without the need for
lots of extra logic for handling integer array inputs. This approach is also in keeping with our general approach in Ivy
of implementing the superset of all behavior, rather than the lowest common denominator

**Round Up**

This should have hopefully given you a good feel for data types, and how these are handled in Ivy.

If you're ever unsure of how best to proceed,
please feel free to engage with the `data types discussion`_,
or reach out on `discord`_ in the `data types channel`_!


**Video**

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="420" height="315"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2qOBzQdLXn4" class="video">
    </iframe>
